so we're back in the kitchen today i'm
going to go
through 10 things i really really wish i
knew before i started my fitness journey
and
just throughout the whole thing to be
honest i'd have saved myself
so much time and effort more importantly
if i'd have known these things and i
just felt like it'd be
good to share these with you and help
you if you're struggling with any of
these things that i mentioned
and just clear a few things up as well
there's so many myths when it comes to
fitness and a lot of fads
i tried to order these but i just felt
like they're too broad and
mean different things to different
people so i just want to do them in no
particular order
and i'm just going to jump straight into
it before we do that if you could hit
this video with a like
it really supports my channel and is
very much appreciated
so i have wrote some notes out i would
recommend getting down
getting down getting a drink and also
your notes on your phone in fact you
might be watching on your phone
a notepad a laptop and you know you
might want to drop some of these down
these are serious game changers let me
tell you
so the first thing i'm going to mention
is don't compare your physique to
someone else's or try and imitate
someone else's diet or what you think
is their diet to your own we all have
completely different body structures
lifestyles
also total energy expenditure on a daily
like rtdee
is very different so when i first
started out my fitness journey i
remember
going on this fitness girl's instagram
and
she wrote a caption about how she's lost
weight and what she's done and it was
just
explaining like her calories i took that
as very much okay i'm gonna copy
her calories didn't have a clue about
macros at this point i'm gonna look like
this girl and have the same physique as
her
obviously that did not work after two
weeks i was like what has happened i
think i'd actually put on weight to be
honest
and that's purely because you don't know
what
that person's daily expenditure is like
they could be doing 30k steps
as well as a two hour workout i will
never ever advise to go off someone
else's calories
it's really detrimental because we all
have very different activity levels like
during the day
if you're sat at your laptop most a day
or if you're on the move
walking about taking your dog out for
multiple walks we all
have very different energy expenditures
in with that point we do all have
different genetics i for one have quite
smaller hips i remember anything like
the kim kardashian phase has been around
wider hips with massive huge bums
you can create illusions of these kind
of things like illusions of smaller
waist illusions of
wider hips by building up certain muscle
groups and areas
second thing to mention is learn the
science behind
weight loss and muscle gain before
doing anything saves you so much time so
much effort so much time in the gym
just overall learning that has changed
my
life something that's probably my most
frequently asked question is
how can i get abs whilst growing muscle
on my legs and
glutes i've personally found it easier
to do the two things separately so
cutting phase and a bulking phase that's
just how
i like to do and what works for me you
can get leaner and grow muscle but it
just takes a long time and is a lot more
difficult
but by simply educating yourself on
those things just saves
so much time and energy that you put
into your workouts and you'll get
much easier simpler results there's no
secret to it
it is just basic biology behind both of
things and the next one is
no one is looking at you or judging you
i really wish i'd have thought this
over and over when i started out in the
gym i used to get so anxious when i
first stepped foot in there and i felt
like the whole gym
was just staring at me because i didn't
really know what i was doing at the time
people are so invested in themselves and
generally in the gym
everyone's there to improve themselves
so you know people might glance over for
a few seconds but they're just going to
go back
to their own business and you are going
to grow in confidence the more
you step foot in that gym put yourself
out of that comfort zone
and it's just gonna you know blossom
from
there next one i really wish i could
just go and tell
my younger weightlifting itself is
proper form is always more important
than
racking on the weights sadly i had to go
through an injury
to realize this so definitely don't make
that mistake of
loading up your barbell and just being
ridiculous i really recommend
progressive overloading but just make
sure
you can perform the rep pro with proper
good form
before loading up with more and more if
you're struggling
with your form or you feel like you're
unsure if you're doing things correctly
i just always say
go on youtube and just watch how to
properly like perform a movement and
just really
make sure you've got the form right the
next one and probably one of the most
important ones
is you cannot spot reduce
fat this is something that i was stuck
on
for such a long time i was doing
crunches
like every day a few years back and
looking in the mirror every day at my
stomach like where are my abs
where are they are they going to appear
tomorrow or what not only my abs it was
my inner thighs like when i first
started out at the gym i would be on
that
adduction machine or doing any any form
of like inner thigh work to try and get
a thigh gap
isn't it weird how like the times change
now like that trend
has completely shifted only by training
under a calorie
deficit and consuming fewer calories
than you are burning can you lose body
fat
so with that as well you can't pick and
choose where you lose fat from
and this is where genetics come into it
because we all like i mentioned earlier
on
we store fat in different places i for
one seem to carry
more fat in my arms than like my back
which is just
quite random like we're all different
mason he stores like a lot of his fat in
his back
so just realizing that have saved me so
many crunches
don't get me wrong it's amazing to build
up your core your core is such an
important part to train don't waste your
time
with doing like anything that stays
targeted like
inner arm or i don't know you like this
part of your arm here
just a calorie deficit where you lose
overall
body fat then the next one is realizing
you can't get
big and bulky from lifting weights it
takes a lot
especially for a female to put on a lot
of
muscle mass you would have to be eating
in a massive
surplus for me progressive resistance
training has created a much leaner
physique and appearance
on a hole something else to consider is
the more muscle mass you have
the more calories you burn throughout
exercise and also like during
recovery too i really wish i knew all
this like when i first started out
because it'd have saved me
oh my god to create a lean of sick and
lose some body fat
the best things that you can do is
progressive resistance training mixed
with a calorie deficit
plenty of sleep and of course like
nutrient dense food
and then the next one is just to make
sure
your goals are for you now this might
sound a bit strange
over the years my goals like used to
change so much like
one week i'd be like right that's it i
don't mind a bit of extra chub i want to
grow this bum of mine
and i would be like all in like right
eating all the foods
and then the following week i would have
felt really gross from whatever i did
previous one and i'm like right no i
need abs now and i'd go on like a
million runs
and i was just kind of swapping and
changing and more so going with the
trends
rather than doing what was actually
right for me and ultimately
that didn't get me any results i wasn't
happy doing that or healthy and i just
felt very confused
if you're someone at the moment or who's
like in limbo or you don't really know
what you want i just say to sit down
take a few deep breaths with a big piece
of paper this is always what i do
whenever i feel it feel like overwhelmed
or just
like up in the air or not feeling like
i'm getting anywhere breaking stuff down
and asking yourself why do i want this
like why do i actually want this is it
what's it going to make me feel
you're not going to feel any different
with a leaner or
um a bigger physique comes from within
i've found personally and i've really
just worked on
finding your why do you want to feel
healthier be healthier within yourself
and you know be able to live longer or
just make sure you've got your why
and that's going to give you a lot more
motivation and a reason to actually what
you're doing
and you'll just feel a lot clearer
something that i did touch on in my
fitness journey is
under eating now this can be such a
hindrance and i really didn't
understand or realize that for a long
time i would say i underate completely
and when i first started out like
looking at calories and macros
i thought right i'm just going to put
myself on really low calories and just
be able to not be hungry and just get
over it and still lose weight because
that was my
goal but over restricting calories in
order to lose weight can really backfire
i know it did for me
if your body's getting a few calories
than it needs in order to function it
goes into that this conservation mode
where it grabs hold of as much energy as
it can get
and generally will go for like your
proteins in your body
which is what helps maintain your muscle
mass
and use that protein in your muscles as
an n as the main energy source which is
really not what you want
since muscle helps you burn more
calories when you are resting
it's really going to sabotage and be
detrimental to
any weight loss or muscle gain so yeah
so that's that one which is quite
interesting there is a lot to that
next mistake i made was using the scale
as an indicator of
my progress this varies for like
different styles of training
if you're doing a purely cardio based
training program a little bit more
different when you're following a
resistance training program the number
on the scale doesn't take into account
like your body composition
your lean muscle mass and also your fat
mass so there's a lot of like different
considerations
in the start like i got so caught up on
like the number on the scales although
it is a brilliant indicator but it's
just so many like variables
that go into it so the next mistake or
something that i didn't really
understand when i
was a complete beginner in the gym and
with my nutrition
is seeing a massive amount of change and
then it kind of slowing down and like
feeling like i wasn't progressing from
there this is mainly for if you're
someone who's a complete beginner
in the gym and also like completely
beginning with like looking at
good nutrition all that happens here is
obviously your body being shocked with a
lot more exercise than what you're
normally used to
and burning a lot more calories than you
have done for you know potentially the
first time
in your life so say if one of your goals
is weight loss you'll probably notice
quite a lot within the first few weeks
and then it might sort of slow down
so that's where your body is adapting
and it'll be a bit harder
to see results that were initially like
the first few weeks and then from that
point you just need to make sure you are
increasing your
repetitions and your load or changing
your volume around
take like a log of things or like
measurements make sure you're tracking
your workouts and i think that's
super helpful and definitely something
that i wish i'd known but i feel like a
lot of people go through
so they're the main things i wanted to
cover i didn't want to go off complete
tangent because
there's just so much to all these little
things and so many ins and outs
there's probably a lot more mistakes
that i did make but um
let me know if you did enjoy this style
of video i'd love to do
any more like this but um just let me
know in the comments what you would like
to see next or if there's anything you
want me to
elaborate if you haven't already i would
love you to stick around and subscribe
to my channel and i'll see you guys in
the next
video